services/PostgreSQL/system.md, before:

# PostgreSQL system

## System commands

### Dump and restore

Dump and restore optimized for speed:
```
export DB_NAME=mydb
pg_dump -Z2 -Fc $DB_NAME -f /tmp/$DB_NAME.gz
pg_restore -j 8 -d $DB_NAME /tmp/$DB_NAME.gz
```

If we want to restore with different owner:

```
pg_restore -j 8 --no-owner --role=user2 -d db_name /tmp/db_name.gz
```

Dump schema only:

```
pg_dump -s -d db_name -n schema_name
```

### Copy roles between servers

Dump and restore roles (without passwords):
```
pg_dumpall -g > roles.sql
psql -U postgres -f roles.sql
```

### Create md5 hash for user password

```
$ python
>>> import hashlib
>>> password='pero'
>>> username='pero'
>>> "md5" + hashlib.md5(password + username).hexdigest()
'md50008c0dab2ff4c2f7e84fcab7eb8db6a'
```

### Views

Show views on a particular table:

```
SELECT table_name from INFORMATION_SCHEMA.views;
```

Without system views:

```
SELECT table_name from INFORMATION_SCHEMA.views WHERE table_schema = ANY (current_schemas(false));
```

## System upgrade

Install new binaries, initdb, stop both servers, and run:

```
/usr/pgsql-10/bin/pg_upgrade -b /usr/pgsql-9.3/bin -B /usr/pgsql-10/bin -d /var/lib/pgsql/9.3/data -D /var/lib/pgsql/10/data
```

## System queries

### Running queries

```
SELECT usename,client_addr,waiting,query_start,state,pid FROM pg_stat_activity;
SELECT datname,usename,procpid,client_addr,waiting,query_start,current_query FROM pg_stat_activity;
```

Top-like view of current queries, grouped by how many of the same query are
running at that instant and the usernames belonging to each connection:

```
SELECT COUNT(\*) as cnt, usename, current_query FROM pg_stat_activity GROUP BY usename,current_query ORDER BY cnt DESC;
```

### Files in datadir

To get the list of all the relations and respective files, run:

```
SELECT pg_relation_filenode(oid) FROM pg_class WHERE relkind IN ('i','r','t','S','m') AND reltablespace=0 ORDER BY 1;
```

Now, if we want to find unused files, compare the output with the:

```
cd $PGDATA/base/<oid>
ls | grep -E '^[0-9]+$' | sort -n
```

Lingering data files that do not correspond to any object that the DB knows about should
appear in the diff of outputs of these two commands. Those files should be safe to delete.


### Database sizes

```
SELECT pg_size_pretty(pg_database_size('mydatabasename')) As fulldbsize;
```

### Table sizes

```
SELECT table_schema, table_name, pg_relation_size('"'||table_schema||'"."'||table_name||'"')
FROM information_schema.tables ORDER BY 3;
```

### Table sizes (table, index, total)

```
SELECT
    table_name,
    pg_size_pretty(table_size) AS table_size,
    pg_size_pretty(indexes_size) AS indexes_size,
    pg_size_pretty(total_size) AS total_size
FROM (
    SELECT
        table_name,
        pg_table_size(table_name) AS table_size,
        pg_indexes_size(table_name) AS indexes_size,
        pg_total_relation_size(table_name) AS total_size
    FROM (
        SELECT ('"' || table_schema || '"."' || table_name || '"') AS table_name
        FROM information_schema.tables
    ) AS all_tables
    ORDER BY table_size DESC
) AS pretty_sizes;
```

## Database repair

### Amcheck

Amcheck is utility for checking database for corruption.

```
# yum install amcheck_next11 --enablerepo=pgdg11
psql> CREATE EXTENSION amcheck_next;
```

After install, run check:

```
SELECT bt_index_check(index => c.oid, heapallindexed => i.indisunique),
        c.relname,
        c.relpages
FROM pg_index i
JOIN pg_opclass op ON i.indclass[0] = op.oid
JOIN pg_am am ON op.opcmethod = am.oid
JOIN pg_class c ON i.indexrelid = c.oid
JOIN pg_namespace n ON c.relnamespace = n.oid
WHERE am.amname = 'btree' AND n.nspname = 'pg_catalog'
-- Don't check temp tables, which may be from another session:
AND c.relpersistence != 't'
-- Function may throw an error when this is omitted:
AND c.relkind = 'i' AND i.indisready AND i.indisvalid
ORDER BY c.relpages DESC LIMIT 10;
```

Commit message:

Describe pgsql dump and import with modifications

services/PostgreSQL/system.md, after:

# PostgreSQL system

## System commands

### Dump and restore

Dump and restore optimized for speed:
```
export DB_NAME=mydb
pg_dump -Z2 -Fc $DB_NAME -f /tmp/$DB_NAME.gz
pg_restore -j 8 -d $DB_NAME /tmp/$DB_NAME.gz
```

If we want to restore with different owner:

```
pg_restore -j 8 --no-owner --role=user2 -d db_name /tmp/db_name.gz
```

Dump schema only:

```
pg_dump -s -d db_name -n schema_name
```

### Dump and restore with modifications

If we want to change the owner or anything else in the database while transferring, we can do:

```
export DB_NAME=mydb
pg_dump -Fp $DB_NAME | sed 's/OWNER TO owner1;/OWNER TO owner2;/g' | xz -1 > /tmp/$DB_NAME.xz
```

Restore is done via `psql`:

```
xzcat /tmp/$DB_NAME.gz | psql $DB_NAME > import.log
```

### Copy roles between servers

Dump and restore roles (without passwords):
```
pg_dumpall -g > roles.sql
psql -U postgres -f roles.sql
```

### Create md5 hash for user password

```
$ python
>>> import hashlib
>>> password='pero'
>>> username='pero'
>>> "md5" + hashlib.md5(password + username).hexdigest()
'md50008c0dab2ff4c2f7e84fcab7eb8db6a'
```

### Views

Show views on a particular table:

```
SELECT table_name from INFORMATION_SCHEMA.views;
```

Without system views:

```
SELECT table_name from INFORMATION_SCHEMA.views WHERE table_schema = ANY (current_schemas(false));
```

## System upgrade

Install new binaries, initdb, stop both servers, and run:

```
/usr/pgsql-10/bin/pg_upgrade -b /usr/pgsql-9.3/bin -B /usr/pgsql-10/bin -d /var/lib/pgsql/9.3/data -D /var/lib/pgsql/10/data
```

## System queries

### Running queries

```
SELECT usename,client_addr,waiting,query_start,state,pid FROM pg_stat_activity;
SELECT datname,usename,procpid,client_addr,waiting,query_start,current_query FROM pg_stat_activity;
```

Top-like view of current queries, grouped by how many of the same query are
running at that instant and the usernames belonging to each connection:

```
SELECT COUNT(\*) as cnt, usename, current_query FROM pg_stat_activity GROUP BY usename,current_query ORDER BY cnt DESC;
```

### Files in datadir

To get the list of all the relations and respective files, run:

```
SELECT pg_relation_filenode(oid) FROM pg_class WHERE relkind IN ('i','r','t','S','m') AND reltablespace=0 ORDER BY 1;
```

Now, if we want to find unused files, compare the output with the:

```
cd $PGDATA/base/<oid>
ls | grep -E '^[0-9]+$' | sort -n
```

Lingering data files that do not correspond to any object that the DB knows about should
appear in the diff of outputs of these two commands. Those files should be safe to delete.


### Database sizes

```
SELECT pg_size_pretty(pg_database_size('mydatabasename')) As fulldbsize;
```

### Table sizes

```
SELECT table_schema, table_name, pg_relation_size('"'||table_schema||'"."'||table_name||'"')
FROM information_schema.tables ORDER BY 3;
```

### Table sizes (table, index, total)

```
SELECT
    table_name,
    pg_size_pretty(table_size) AS table_size,
    pg_size_pretty(indexes_size) AS indexes_size,
    pg_size_pretty(total_size) AS total_size
FROM (
    SELECT
        table_name,
        pg_table_size(table_name) AS table_size,
        pg_indexes_size(table_name) AS indexes_size,
        pg_total_relation_size(table_name) AS total_size
    FROM (
        SELECT ('"' || table_schema || '"."' || table_name || '"') AS table_name
        FROM information_schema.tables
    ) AS all_tables
    ORDER BY table_size DESC
) AS pretty_sizes;
```

## Database repair

### Amcheck

Amcheck is utility for checking database for corruption.

```
# yum install amcheck_next11 --enablerepo=pgdg11
psql> CREATE EXTENSION amcheck_next;
```

After install, run check:

```
SELECT bt_index_check(index => c.oid, heapallindexed => i.indisunique),
        c.relname,
        c.relpages
FROM pg_index i
JOIN pg_opclass op ON i.indclass[0] = op.oid
JOIN pg_am am ON op.opcmethod = am.oid
JOIN pg_class c ON i.indexrelid = c.oid
JOIN pg_namespace n ON c.relnamespace = n.oid
WHERE am.amname = 'btree' AND n.nspname = 'pg_catalog'
-- Don't check temp tables, which may be from another session:
AND c.relpersistence != 't'
-- Function may throw an error when this is omitted:
AND c.relkind = 'i' AND i.indisready AND i.indisvalid
ORDER BY c.relpages DESC LIMIT 10;
```
